Mental Filter
Judgements
Mind-Reading
Emotional Reasoning
Prediction
Comparisons
Catastrophizing
Critical Self
Black and White

Shoulds and Musts

What it is: Making a demand on yourself, the world, or other people.
Why Its a distortion: When your demand isn't met, it can be very upsetting and disappointing.  

How to respond:
1) Replace the words should, or must, with "I wish" or "it might be better if".
2) Recognize that even things had worked out the way they "should", life would still not be perfect.
3) 
4) If possible, think of something you can do to bring things closer to the ideal.  

Example: 

Words like "should" or "must" make demands on you, the world, or others around you.  When those demands are not fulfilled, it can be very upsetting and disappointing.  Try replacing the word "should" or "must" with the words "I wish" or "it might be better if".  This is a good place to start, as it lets you express the desire for the situation to be different, without focusing on the fact that there is no way to instantly change it.  Recognize that even if things were the way they should be, they still wouldn't be perfect.  

Example: I shouldn't have eaten that donut.  You can rephrase this as I wish I hadn't eaten that donut.  Even if you hadn't eaten the donut, your life would still not be perfect.  Imagine thinking, if only I hadn't eaten that donut - all of my life's problems would be solved!  Ridiculous, right?  It might have been nice if you hadn't eaten that donut, but ultimately, it won't make a big difference to your life, and you can work on avoiding donuts in the future.  

<a>Why "should" is such a dangerous word</a>
<a>Check out mental filter, another distortion which might apply</a>

When you use the word "should" or "must", you imply that the way things are now is unacceptable.  Rather than accepting 

You "should" eat less.  You "should" have a girlfriend or boyfriend.  You "must" .  You end up focusing your thoughts on how the current situation 

Regrets and Memories


Try - think this not that!
